Now let's add the validation for these fields.
So we are going to change the bottom disabled behavior and we are just going to check the user to enter
valid credentials into these inputs before enabling the button.
So let's have the validation.
And again, I'm going to use the sign of component as reference.
So we have this validation logic.
We are not going to implement all the validations, but we will implement some parts of it.
We are not going to have the the uniqueness check, for instance, for the email.
And so I'm just going to copy this part, the test cases.
And here adding a new describe look to the log component spec and this is for the validation and it
just pasting this test cases.
Now we are not going to do anything about the username, so we are going to test the email.
Email is required and email format and password password to be required.
And just removing the others.
And let's start with the first one.
So I'm just commenting out the the others.
So it displays this error when the field has this value and now it's also renamed these assign a variable
to log in page here because we are testing the log in page.
Now in this one, we need to change the test to async because we have to call a weight fixture when
stable because this form is template driven form.
So we must be waiting for that fixture to be stable before filling these inputs.
And here we are checking the validation error for the field first.
It shouldn't be there initially.
Then after filling the form with the invalid data, we are checking the validation field once again
and we expect it to be there.
We expect it to have this error message.
So let's save this one.
And this test is failing.
Now let's fix it again if we take the sign up page as reference.
All the validation logic was in the component in the form controls right here.
So like for the email, we use this validators array and we use the validator functionality required
coming from the angular forms.
But now we are using template driven form and the validation are also going to be set in the template.
So let's open the login component.
Now for the email case.
We are going to use the validation required.
So this is going to be handling the required validation for this one.
But let's see how we can take the error error from this, this validation that let's see how we can
access to the error we need to access to the IMG model instance for the this email input.
And we can do that like this.
We can have a template variable, we use it like this hash and the variable name and let's say this
is email input and this is going to be N.G. model.
So we are assigning the model, this energy model to email input variable.
Then we can use this template variable in the template.
So let's say after, after this input, let's display whatever is image input content.
So let's, let's save this one.
It's not fixing anything at the moment.
But if we open the browser here, we see there is this object and we can use the pipe to convert it
to JSON.
At the moment we don't see anything, but this input has control controlled property.
And here in this one it is saying the control properties form control type of object, which means like
if you open the sign up component as.
Like like the form controls we are using in the reactive form.
So by taking the control from this engine model, we are accessing to the form control instance.
So let's say this one.
Now it has properties like if it is touched.
Like it is error, like the status is valid.
So those are coming with this form control element in this engine model and we can access to the errors
like this.
Let's save it.
Now it is saying the required is true.
So basically this is having a validation error at the moment because we have this required.
So if if I remove this.
Then this is not.
But if I add the required so it is validating it and it has this value.
And if I type anything here, as you can see, that request is gone.
So basically we are going to use this information here in the template to show the error message to
the user.
So let's do something like this.
Let's have a diff here and let's show this one conditionally.
Dingy if and the condition is again we are going to use the properties coming with the control and if
you also check the signup component once again.
Right here.
We were showing the error errors for for these fields by checking again this was accessing to the form
control.
And from that one we were taking the errors and we were checking if it is touched or if it is dirty,
which means a user is still entering value.
And then we were taking the corresponding error message and returning that.
So we will do the same checks as well to make the same user experience.
So before showing an error, we are going to check I'm just copying this email input control and it
if it is invalid and.
I'm going to next line if it is dirty or it is touched.
So.
If this condition matches like this, then we are going to display the error message to user and error
messages.
Again, there can be multiple validation cases like the required, like the size.
Later we will have email, so we must be checking the validation error type as well.
So again, adding another diff here and this time we will check if email.
Input errors and this is an array.
And from this array we will get the required.
So if you have required type of error, by the way, it is optional.
If you have required type error, then let's display the error message to use it saying email is required.
So saving this one, this one visible as well.
So if I lose the focus here like I didn't type anything and move to the next one and here the the message
is visible.
But if I type anything and jump to the next one, that message is gone.
Let's, let's remove this part to make it cleaner.
Now we have this email input.
And if I focus to the next one, here it is printing this error.
So the implementation for the validation is working, but the test is failing because in test.
We are querying the visibility of this this element, having this data tested and it is having the field
dash validation.
So it's going to be like this.
Let's have the day to decide for the day of wrapping the errors.
Data test ID.
Email validation.
Saving this one.
And it tests are passing and we also verify that it's working on the browser.
The validation is working, but the styling is not there yet.
Like if I clear it then the text is black and there is no red border around the input.
So let's fix that part as well.
And again, we are using the same logic, like if basically this is saying if we have error, then we
are going to set this size and just copying this one.
And again, if we open the signup component here, we were conditionally assigning, this is invalid
and the logic was coming from this username error and this was returning the error message back by doing
these controls.
So when we check this one, it is more simpler to read what's going on here.
So if you have username error, the class is going to be this one.
And also here, if you have this username error, then this will be visible and we will display the
error message.
But in the template driven form, since all the the form related components are within the template,
we are using that template to have the logical parts as well.
So again, just copying this part, but we will replace this username error.
So here there is this IMG class, but instead of username error, again, we are going to use this logic.
If there is if this is invalid, if this is dirty or touched, then assign.
This is invalid.
And for the the the rapping the error text is also having the class of this one invalid feedback like
this saving it.
So if I focus the other now we have the border around input and the text is red for the the validation
error.
If I fail the input, then the error is gone.
Now the styling is also working, but the template is getting more complex and it is harder to process
this in terms of like understanding what's going on here.
To make this a bit simpler, we can extract this logical part out here and delegate it to the component.
So in let's open the log in component and let's have a function here.
Let's say this is checking for is in valid and it's going to be taking the field as a property and the
field type is form control and this will do the checking like it will be taking invalid, dirty and
touched from the field and it's going to be returning if this is invalid and dirty or touched.
So this is the case for it.
So we have this function now and here in the component we can call that function.
Like this is invalid and we can pass the con control by taking it from this email input, email input
control like this.
And let's do the same thing here as well.
Saving it.
And here the validation is working and tests are working.
So with this way, template is more cleaner and it is easier to read.
Now let's add the next test and that is for again email input.
But this time we will check the format of the email.
So let's save this one.
So this is failing.
We don't have this message.
Invalid email address.
Just copying the message here.
We'll use it in the template.
Now, other than required, we will have the validation control for email.
This is like referencing to the email validator and then we will have another div here.
And in this one we will display this message.
But this will be visible when email type of failure occurs.
So let's save this one.
And the days are passing.
And here, if I type this, it is showing invalid.
But if I add something like this now it is showing valid.
If I leave it empty, it is showing image required.
So basically both validations are working for this input.
Now let's add the validation for the the password.
For this one, we are not going to go into the password pattern.
Just just let's require password to be entered.
We don't care about the type entered by user, so let's save this.
And the fix is simple.
We already have a sample here for the email case and we will do the same thing in the password.
So the password is required and we need to access to the IMG model.
Let's have a template variable.
It's called the password input IMG model.
Then we are going to assign this class when password input control is invalid.
Then I'm just going to copy the error section here from the email and pasting after the input for the
password.
This is for password validation, for password input control and when password input has errors.
For the required.
We don't need this next one.
We will show this message.
Let's get it from.
Test password is required.
Just going to paste here, saving this one.
And is this our passing?
And here, if I focus out of password, we see the password is required.
Now let's also update this login buttons visibility.
At the moment, if I type something like this, the button is enabled, but the email is invalid at
the moment.
So let's make sure the login buttons enabled functionality is tied with the validation logic.
And for this one I'm going to add a new test, but this test is going to be in the interactions block
because we have the.
That enabled logic right here.
So I'm going to add the test right after this one.
Let's say it does not enable enable button when fields are invalid.
So we are calling this setup form, but we need to update the fields here.
So let's let's change the implementation for the setup form here.
Let's make sure it takes parameters and let's have the email and let's say it is going to be a user
one at Malcolm.
In the test we are not passing any params, so just making sure we take the default default parameter
and.
We could also add the password, but I'm just keeping it simple at this point.
Just going with the email and here for the email input.
Answering this value coming from the palm here.
So in these tests, we are not passing that palm.
So it is taking this default value.
But now I'm just going to call the setup form with a value like let's say letter A and this is invalid
because of the email validation.
And then we are expecting this button to be disabled, which means disabled property to be treated,
saving this one.
So this is failing for fixing this one.
We have a couple of solutions.
One of them is in the logging component right here.
The disabled logic is like checking this disabled function.
By the way, we have this API progress, but this is not necessary anymore because the API progress
we are passing to button is already disabling the button and that is internal the implementation of
this component.
So we don't have to pass this one just saving like this to make sure it's not breaking anything.
At the moment we have failure, but that's just for the test.
For the button does not to be enabled when the fields are invalid.
So that's the the last test we have added.
So we can enhance this, this part by calling this is invalid right here.
So like we can say if it's disabled or if is invalid for the password input or is invalid for the email
input.
So this is one of the way to fix it, saving it.
And this passing and let's test it on browser.
So failing the password we have value and failing email we have value but it is still invalid.
So the button is disabled and as soon as that entry is valid, the button is enabled.
So it is working.
We have another solution here as well and that would make the template a bit simpler.
So we would be moving the this logical part out of this template.
So let's say this.
So we are back to the failing case.
Let's see the test result and let's fix it.
And the fix is now going to be handled within the component class and in reactive form.
If we check the signup component once again here we have a reference in the class, we have reference
to the form control instances.
We can have a reference in the the logging component as well.
Even we are having a.
Template driven form, we can have a reference to the form control instances of these, the email input,
password input and email inputs like we can have a reference to those.
And to do that, we can use another functionality of Angular and that is View Child.
So we can access to the child object in the component by using the template variables of them.
So we are going to get to the.
You may have input right here.
This is the name.
And we use it here and we are assigning it to.
Variable.
And it's going to be it's not going to be null.
So just adding this exclamation mark for that and it's going to be form control.
And just like that, we can access to the password input as well.
Password input.
Now.
Here in this disabled light we can enhance.
This is disabled logic by checking if email is empty or password is empty or this is invalid.
And this email input.
If the email input is invalid or this is invalid, it is password input.
So we can use childs.
We are taking like this and we can take their invalid status and we can use it in the is disabled attribute.
So let's save this one.
And as are passing.
So since this is making the template a bit simpler, I'm going with this approach.